samples: dect_phy: dect_shell: dect nr+ mac sample, new rssi_scan and rx command options (#18299)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/dect/dect_phy/dect_shell/README.rst

     dect rssi_scan stop

> * Execute longer RSSI measurements on all permitted channels, and instead of default high/low RSSI value based verdict; use subslot count based verdict for BUSY/POSSIBLE/FREE and as a end results, see the verdict for the best channel:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Execute longer RSSI measurements on all permitted channels, and instead of default high/low RSSI value-based verdict, use subslot count-based verdict for BUSY/POSSIBLE/FREE and as a end result, see the verdict for the best channel:
```

  .. code-block:: console

     dect rssi_scan -c 0 --verdict_type_count -t 3000 -a

> * Execute longer RSSI measurements on specific channel, and instead of default high/low RSSI value based verdict; use subslot count based verdict for BUSY/POSSIBLE/FREE. Additionally, print BUSY/POSSIBLE measurements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Execute longer RSSI measurements on specific channel, and instead of default high/low RSSI value-based verdict, use subslot count-based verdict for BUSY/POSSIBLE/FREE.
  Additionally, print BUSY/POSSIBLE measurements:
```

This command demostrates basic sample of DECT NR+ MAC layer on top of PHY API based on ETSI TS 103 636-4 V1.4.8 (2024-01).
With this command you can start a cluster beacon, scan for beacons, associate/dissociate, and send data to beacon random access RX window.

> Disclaimer: this is just a basic sample for initials and not a full MAC implementation, it does not support all the features of the DECT NR+ MAC layer and is not fully compliant with the MAC specification.

Reviewer 2: This could be made a note using `.. note::`.

     client:
     dect rf_tool -m rx_tx --rx_subslot_count 9 --rx_idle_subslot_count 4 --tx_subslot_count 8 --tx_idle_subslot_count 4 --tx_mcs 4 --frame_repeat_count 50 -c 1677 --tx_pwr 15 -t 39

Dect NR+ PHY MAC
================

DeSh command: ``dect mac``

> This command demostrates basic sample of DECT NR+ MAC layer on top of PHY API based on ETSI TS 103 636-4 V1.4.8 (2024-01).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command demostrates a basic sample of the DECT NR+ MAC layer on top of PHY API based on ETSI TS 103 636-4 V1.4.8 (2024-01).
```
Link to the spec.

> With this command you can start a cluster beacon, scan for beacons, associate/dissociate, and send data to beacon random access RX window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this command, you can start a cluster beacon, scan for beacons, associate/dissociate, and send data to the beacon random access RX window.
```

.. note::

>    Disclaimer: this is just a basic sample for initials and not a full MAC implementation, it does not support all the features of the DECT NR+ MAC layer and is not fully compliant with the MAC specification.
>    For example cluster beaconing with RA allocation, and LMS implementations overall are not what is required by the MAC specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This is just an initial basic sample and not a full MAC implementation.
   It does not support all the features of the DECT NR+ MAC layer and is not fully compliant with the MAC specification.
   For example, cluster beaconing with RA allocation and LMS implementations overall are not what is required by the specification.
```

> Following abbreviations from MAC specification are used in the examples below:
> - FT: Fixed Termination point
> - PT: Portable Termination point

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following abbreviations from MAC specification are used in the examples:

* FT: Fixed Termination point
* PT: Portable Termination point
```

Example: starting of cluster beacon and sending RA data to it
-------------------------------------------------------------

> * FT/Beacon device - start periodic cluster beacon TX at default band #1 and at the 1st free channel:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* FT/Beacon device - Start periodic cluster beacon TX on default band 1 and on the first free channel:
```

         Best channel: 1659
         Final verdict: FREE
         Free subslots: 9648
         Possible subslots: 0
         Busy subslots: 0
      Scheduled beacon TX: interval 2000ms, tx pwr 0 dbm, channel 1659, payload PDU byte count: 50
      Channel 1659 was chosen for the beacon.
      Beacon TX started.

* FT/Beacon device - Check MAC status:

  .. code-block:: console

      desh:~$ dect mac status
      dect-phy-mac status:
      Cluster beacon status:
         Beacon running:                yes
         Beacon channel:                1665
         Beacon tx power:               0 dBm
         Beacon interval:               2000 ms
         Beacon payload PDU byte count: 50
      Neighbor list status:

* FT/Beacon device - Check generated long and short RD IDs from settings:

  .. code-block:: console

      desh:~$ dect sett -r
      Common settings:
      network id (32bit).............................305419896 (0x12345678)
      transmitter id (long RD ID)....................1234 (0x000004d2)
      short RD ID....................................27462 (0x6b46)
      band number....................................1

> * PT/client side: Scan beacon:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* PT/client side - Scan the beacon:
```

            Length:               10
            Max RACH length type: in slots
            Max RACH length:      4
            CW min sig:           0
            DECT delay:           resp win starts 0.5 frames after the start of the RA TX
            Response win:         11 subslots
            CW max sig:           7
      SDU 3:
         MAC MUX header:
            IE type: Padding
            Payload length: 24
            Received padding data, len 24, payload is not printed
      Neighbor with long rd id 1234 (0x000004d2), short rd id 27462 (0x6b46) stored to nbr list.
      -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
      RSSI scanning results (meas #1 mdm time 16878683565):
      channel                               1659
         neighbor has been seen in this channel
      total scanning count                  102
      highest RSSI                          -104
      lowest RSSI                           -112
      -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
      ...
      -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
      RX DONE.

> * PT/client side: As an alternative to the previous command, and if you don't know in which channel beacon is running, you can scan all channels in a set band:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* PT/client side - As an alternative to the previous command, and if you do not know in which channel the beacon is running, you can scan all channels in a set band:
```

  .. code-block:: console

      desh:~$ dect mac beacon_scan -c 0

> * PT/client side: See that scanned beacon can be found from neighbor list:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* PT/client side - Check that the scanned beacon is found from neighbor list:
```

  .. code-block:: console

      desh:~$ dect mac status
      dect-phy-mac status:
      Cluster beacon status:
      Beacon running: no
      Neighbor list status:
      Neighbor 1:
         network ID (24bit MSB): 1193046 (0x123456)
         network ID (8bit LSB):  120 (0x78)
         network ID (32bit):     305419896 (0x12345678)
         long RD ID:             1234
         short RD ID:            27462
         channel:                1659
         last seen time:         17016336625

> * PT/client side: Send association request to scanned beacon:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* PT/client side - Send association request to the scanned beacon:
```

      Association request TX started.
      TX for Association Request completed.
      PCC received (stf start time 24205392665): status: "valid - PDC can be received", snr 94, RSSI-2 -122 (RSSI -61)
      phy header: short nw id 120 (0x78), transmitter id 27462
      receiver id: 27761
      len 0, MCS 0, TX pwr: 0 dBm
      PDC received (stf start time 24205392665): snr 100, RSSI-2 -122 (RSSI -61), len 17
      DECT NR+ MAC PDU:
      MAC header:
         Version: 0
         Security: MAC security is not used
         Type: Unicast Header
            Reset: yes
            Seq Nbr: 0
            Receiver: 38 (0x00000026)
            Transmitter: 1234 (0x000004d2)
      SDU 1:
         MAC MUX header:
            IE type: Association Response message
            Payload length: 2
            Received Association Response message:
            Acknowledgment:  ACK
            Flow count: 0b111: All flows accepted as configured in association request.
      SDU 2:
         MAC MUX header:
            IE type: Padding (1 byte)
            Payload length: 1
            Received padding data, len 1, payload is not printed
      RX for Association Response completed.

> * PT/client side: Send RA data to scanned beacon:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* PT/client side - Send RA data to the scanned beacon:
```

     client:
     dect rf_tool -m rx_tx --rx_subslot_count 9 --rx_idle_subslot_count 4 --tx_subslot_count 8 --tx_idle_subslot_count 4 --tx_mcs 4 --frame_repeat_count 50 -c 1677 --tx_pwr 15 -t 39

> Dect NR+ PHY MAC

Author: removed PHY

================

DeSh command: ``dect mac``

> This command demostrates a basic sample of the DECT NR+ MAC layer on top of PHY API based on MAC specification `ETSI TS 103 636-4`_.

Reviewer: Maybe just: 
"...on top of PHY API.
It is based on the MAC specification..."

> This command demostrates a basic sample of the DECT NR+ MAC layer on top of PHY API based on MAC specification `ETSI TS 103 636-4`_.

Author: > This sentence says to me that PHY API is based on the MAC specification. I'd assume this is not true but MAC layer is based on MAC specification. Right @jhirsi? 
Right.

  .. code-block:: console

      PCC received (stf start time 37131891398): status: "valid - PDC can be received", snr 93, RSSI-2 -123 (RSSI -61)
      phy header: short nw id 120 (0x78), transmitter id 27761
      receiver id: 27462
      len 0, MCS 0, TX pwr: 0 dBm
      PDC received (stf start time 37131891398): snr 94, RSSI-2 -123 (RSSI -61), len 17
      DECT NR+ MAC PDU:
      MAC header:
         Version: 0
         Security: MAC security is not used
         Type: Unicast Header
            Reset: yes
            Seq Nbr: 2
            Receiver: 1234 (0x000004d2)
            Transmitter: 38 (0x00000026)
      SDU 1:
         MAC MUX header:
            IE type: Association Release message
            Payload length: 1
            Received Association Release message:
            Release Cause:  Connection termination. (value: 0)
      SDU 2:
         MAC MUX header:
            IE type: Padding
            Payload length: 1
            Received padding data, len 1, payload is not printed

* FT/Beacon device - Stop the beacon:

  .. code-block:: console

      desh:~$ dect mac beacon_stop
      Stopping beacon.
      Beacon TX stopped, cause: User Initiated.

> ----

Reviewer 3: Is there a reason to keep this 2nd line in the doc?

> ----

Author: No reason. Removing that "----"
